Remove android info and add limitations (#8793)
flutter/website: src/development/platform-integration/ios/platform-views.md

---
title: Hosting native iOS views in your Flutter app with Platform Views
short-title: iOS platform-views
description: Learn how to host native iOS views in your Flutter app with Platform Views.
---

<?code-excerpt path-base="development/platform_integration"?>

Platform views allow you to embed native views in a Flutter app,
so you can apply transforms, clips, and opacity to the native view
from Dart.

This allows you, for example, to use the native
Google Maps from the Android and iOS SDKs
directly inside your Flutter app.

{{site.alert.note}}
  This page discusses how to host your own native views
  within a Flutter app.
  If you'd like to embed native Android views
  in your Flutter app,
  see [Hosting native Android views][].
{{site.alert.end}}

[Hosting native Android views]: {{site.url}}/development/platform-integration/android/platform-views

> iOS only uses Hybrid composition,

Reviewer: suggestion: "iOS uses only hybrid composition"

Also, hybrid composition doesn't appear to be defined on this page before this mention. Can we link to the definition, or should we lose the use of this undefined term?

which means that the native
`UIView` is appended to the view hierarchy.

To create a platform view on iOS,
use the following instructions:

### On the Dart side

On the Dart side, create a `Widget`

> and add the following build implementation,

Reviewer 2: Don't need "following" twice in the same sentence.

```suggestion
and add the build implementation,
```

as shown in the following steps.

> In your Dart file, for example
> do the following in `native_view_example.dart`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the Dart widget file, make changes similar to those
show in `native_view_example.dart`:
```

    const String viewType = '<platform-view-type>';
    // Pass parameters to the platform side.
    final Map<String, dynamic> creationParams = <String, dynamic>{};

    return UiKitView(
      viewType: viewType,
      layoutDirection: TextDirection.ltr,
      creationParams: creationParams,
      creationParamsCodec: const StandardMessageCodec(),
    );
  }
}

class TogetherWidget extends StatelessWidget {
  const TogetherWidget({super.key});

  @override
  Widget build(BuildContext context) {
    // This is used in the platform side to register the view.
    const String viewType = '<platform-view-type>';
    // Pass parameters to the platform side.
    final Map<String, dynamic> creationParams = <String, dynamic>{};

    switch (defaultTargetPlatform) {
      case TargetPlatform.android:
      // return widget on Android.
      case TargetPlatform.iOS:
      // return widget on iOS.
      default:
        throw UnsupportedError('Unsupported platform view');
    }
  }
}
```
</li>

<li markdown="1">Implement a `build()` method:

<?code-excerpt "lib/platform_views/native_view_example_3.dart (iOSCompositionWidget)"?>
```dart
Widget build(BuildContext context) {

>   // This is used in the platform side to register the view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // Use this on the platform side to register the view.
```

  const String viewType = '<platform-view-type>';
  // Pass parameters to the platform side.
  final Map<String, dynamic> creationParams = <String, dynamic>{};

  return UiKitView(
    viewType: viewType,
    layoutDirection: TextDirection.ltr,
    creationParams: creationParams,
    creationParamsCodec: const StandardMessageCodec(),
  );
}
```
</li>
</ol>

For more information, see the API docs for:
[`UIKitView`][].

[`UIKitView`]: {{site.api}}/flutter/widgets/UiKitView-class.html

### On the platform side

> On the platform side, you use the either Swift or Objective-C:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
On the platform side  use either Swift or Objective-C:
```

{% samplecode ios-platform-views %}
{% sample Swift %}

Implement the factory and the platform view.
The `FLNativeViewFactory` creates the platform view,
and the platform view provides a reference to the `UIView`.

> For example, `FLNativeView.swift`:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For example, as shown in `FLNativeView.swift`:
```

modify the App's `AppDelegate.swift`:

```swift
import Flutter
import UIKit

@UIApplicationMain
@objc class AppDelegate: FlutterAppDelegate {
    override func application(
        _ application: UIApplication,
        didFinishLaunchingWithOptions launchOptions: [UIApplication.LaunchOptionsKey : Any]?
    ) -> Bool {
        GeneratedPluginRegistrant.register(with: self)

        weak var registrar = self.registrar(forPlugin: "plugin-name")

        let factory = FLNativeViewFactory(messenger: registrar!.messenger())
        self.registrar(forPlugin: "<plugin-name>")!.register(
            factory,
            withId: "<platform-view-type>")
        return super.application(application, didFinishLaunchingWithOptions: launchOptions)
    }
}
```

For plugin registration,
modify the plugin's main file
(for example, `FLPlugin.swift`):

```swift
import Flutter
import UIKit

class FLPlugin: NSObject, FlutterPlugin {
    public static func register(with registrar: FlutterPluginRegistrar) {
        let factory = FLNativeViewFactory(messenger: registrar.messenger)
        registrar.register(factory, withId: "<platform-view-type>")
    }
}
```

{% sample Objective-C %}

> Add the headers for the factory and the platform view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In Objective-C, add the headers for the factory and the platform view.
```

  return [super application:application didFinishLaunchingWithOptions:launchOptions];
}

@end
```

For plugin registration,
modify the main plugin file
(for example, `FLPlugin.m`):

```objc
#import <Flutter/Flutter.h>
#import "FLNativeView.h"

@interface FLPlugin : NSObject<FlutterPlugin>
@end

@implementation FLPlugin

+ (void)registerWithRegistrar:(NSObject<FlutterPluginRegistrar>*)registrar {
  FLNativeViewFactory* factory =
      [[FLNativeViewFactory alloc] initWithMessenger:registrar.messenger];
  [registrar registerViewFactory:factory withId:@"<platform-view-type>"];
}

@end
```

{% endsamplecode %}

For more information, see the API docs for:

* [`FlutterPlatformViewFactory`][]
* [`FlutterPlatformView`][]
* [`PlatformView`][]

[`FlutterPlatformView`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Protocols/FlutterPlatformView.html
[`FlutterPlatformViewFactory`]: {{site.api}}/objcdoc/Protocols/FlutterPlatformViewFactory.html
[`PlatformView`]: {{site.api}}/javadoc/io/flutter/plugin/platform/PlatformView.html

## Putting it together

When implementing the `build()` method in Dart,
you can use [`defaultTargetPlatform`][]

> to detect the platform, and decide what widget to use:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to detect the platform, and decide which widget to use:
```

<?code-excerpt "lib/platform_views/native_view_example_3.dart (TogetherWidget)"?>
```dart
Widget build(BuildContext context) {

>   // This is used in the platform side to register the view.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  // Use this on the platform side to register the view.
```

  const String viewType = '<platform-view-type>';
  // Pass parameters to the platform side.
  final Map<String, dynamic> creationParams = <String, dynamic>{};

  switch (defaultTargetPlatform) {
    case TargetPlatform.android:
    // return widget on Android.
    case TargetPlatform.iOS:
    // return widget on iOS.
    default:
      throw UnsupportedError('Unsupported platform view');
  }
}
```

## Performance
Platform views in Flutter come with performance trade-offs.

For example, in a typical Flutter app, the Flutter UI is 
composed on a dedicated raster thread. 
This allows Flutter apps to be fast, 
as the main platform thread is rarely blocked.

When a platform view is rendered with hybrid composition, 
the Flutter UI is composed from the platform thread. 
The platform thread competes with other tasks 
like handling OS or plugin messages.

When an iOS PlatformView is on screen, the screen refresh rate is 

> capped at 80fps to avoid rendering janks.

Reviewer: I'm curious why 80fps was chosen. 60fps and 90fps seem sane, but 80?
